It's true, isn't it, that love is a feeling, but it's proved by actions.
So this morning we're considering how our Lord Jesus Christ proved His love by means
of His actions.
Our comments highlight the fact that Jesus did everything within His power to help others
whenever He could.
While we can learn from that country by doing everything we can to help others under
the past to life and to help them to learn about Jehovah and Jesus.
But when we meditate on the example of Jesus, what are the various ways do we see that
Jesus showed true love, the Christian love that we should be imitating, the love that
reflects the love of Jehovah God?
Well, let's think for a few moments about the various things that proved Jesus love.
The first one, we could say that He showed that He was impartial.
Yes, He didn't put people in boxes, He didn't categorize them, but He viewed them as
individuals.
Now, it's true, Matthew chapter 11 verse 19, Jesus is accused there of being the friend
of tax collectors and sinners.
And it's true that He associated with many of these people wanting to help them.
But at the same time, we notice that Jesus was willing to have a meal with a wealthy
Pharisee.
So that showed us that Jesus didn't just categorize people and say, well, all wealthy people are
bad or poor people are good, but rather He looked at them as individuals.
Well, isn't that a good lesson for us, not to categorize people by their social status
or their race or background, but rather to view them as ones that God loves and wants
to get to know Him?
So that's one way that we could think about how Jesus displayed true love.
The second way is shown for us in the book of Acts.
If you'd like to turn with me to Acts chapter 3 and verse 26.
And mentions, God, after raising up His servant, sent Him to you first to bless you by turning
each one of you away from your wicked deeds.
So what was this manifestation of love?
Well, Jesus was concerned to help persons to correct their thinking and turn them away
from doing what is wrong.
Well, do we see how we can imitate Jesus with regard to that?
Yes, it's hard to give persons counsel, isn't it?
But having the courage to do so is a symbol of love, if it's done in a loving manner.
So correcting persons, perhaps that are going astray,
helping them in the spirit of maleness is a display of Christ-like love.
Also, with whom we study with, it can be difficult,
or perhaps even embarrassing to raise certain moral issues that need to be discussed.
But people need to be corrected if they really are to come into a good relationship with Jehovah.
So that's another way that we can imitate Jesus' love.
Another way that we could think of is the fact that Jesus always took into consideration
the limitations of His apostles.
Remember that last evening before He was to be executed?
It was a serious thing for Jesus.
And we could imagine if any of us knew that we were about to be executed within a few hours,
I don't think many of us would be sleeping, would we be thinking very carefully,
praying to Jehovah, and that's exactly what Jesus did.
And yet, what happened with the apostles?
Well, they fell asleep, heavily asleep.
Now, did Jesus reprimand them and just say,
how you're totally wrong?
You should have appreciation for this evening?
Well, we noticed a comment.
He said, the spirit is eager, but the flesh is weak.
Not that he remembered that it was well after midnight.
They had come, he's full of nice, roast lamb.
Maybe they had three cups of wine.
That's mitigating circumstances, isn't it?
So Jesus took into consideration that there were some factors that perhaps led to them being asleep.
He also mentioned that there were things that he'd like to express to them that they weren't ready for.
So he took into consideration their emotional limitations,
as well as their mental limitations.
And that was mentioned at John chapter 16, verse 12.
So with that in mind, how can we imitate the viewpoint that Jesus had and his Christlike love?
Well, we need to take into consideration the fact that not everybody can do the same things that we do or others do.
We have different limitations.
It could be physical limitations, mental limitations, emotional limitations.
So by imitating Jesus in this regard, giving our brothers the benefit of the doubt, is a display of Christlike love.
Another aspect we could think of is that Jesus looked beyond the faults and mistakes of his loyal apostles.
He didn't focus primarily on that.
Let's have a look at an amazing example of this is recorded in the book of Luke, Luke chapter 22.
In a doubt, we remember immediately these very comforting words that Jesus mentioned that are recorded in verses 28 and 29.
However, you are the ones who stuck with me in my trials.
And I make a covenant with you, just as my father has made a covenant with me for a kingdom.
What a beautiful expression of confidence that Jesus displayed here in his apostles, his faithful apostles.
But as we read on, notice what Jesus said in verse 31, Simon, Simon, look Satan has demanded to have all of you sift you as wheat.
Then he goes on to say that they would abandon him.
This is just after he said, you're faithful, you're sticking with me, he knew that they were going to run away.
Now, of course, in verse 33, Peter says, Lord, I'm ready to go with you both to prison and to death.
Now, Jesus probably was thinking, really?
Well, he said, he might tell you, Peter, a rooster will crow today, sorry, will not crow today until you have denied knowing me three times.
Now, isn't that an amazing thing for us to think of that Jesus knew exactly what was going to happen?
And yet, he still was able to express confidence in their faithfulness.
Now, that means his hope for all of us, too, doesn't it?
It also means that Jesus requires us not to focus on the weaknesses and the mistakes of our brothers and sisters,
but rather on their good intentions and their positive qualities.
So it's good for us to ask, what do I focus on?
Do I focus on the good intentions, look beyond perhaps the mistakes that our brothers make?
Well, if we do so, then we're imitating the love that Jesus displayed.
Now, another way we could notice is mentioned for us and recorded in John chapter 17.
John 17 and verse 11, this is part of a prayer that Jesus added on that very night before he died.
He said, I'm no longer in the world, but they are in the world.
And I'm coming to you, holy Father, watch over them on account of your own name, which you have given me
so that they may be one, just as we are one.
So Jesus prayed for his apostles.
He knew that they would have problems, but he prayed for unity, and he prayed that Jehovah would care for them.
Well, what about us?
Do we imitate this same type of love?
It may be very easy for us to pray for our brothers in Venezuela, for our brothers that have been affected by natural disasters,
by our brothers being persecuted, but what about those irritating annoying brothers?
Are we really willing to pray for them?
Well, when we do, and we pray that we're not irritated and annoyed by them, that is also an evidence of Christian love, isn't it?
And then finally, we could say that Jesus displayed a Christ-like love in a way because he was willing to listen to his apostles,
to try and find out how they felt about matters.
Did he really need to have that information?
Not really, but he dignified them by allowing them an opportunity to be able to express themselves.
Remember at one stage, he asked him, who am I?
What are people saying?
And then he asked them, who do you think I am?
With Simon Peter, with regard to the tax question, he asked, what do you think about these taxes?
Should they be paid or not?
So Jesus did this to dignify others, and he listened to their answers.
Well, in a similar way, we should do the same.
So just looking at all these various things that we've considered, what did Jesus do?
How did he display this love, this true genuine love?
He did everything he could within his power to help others.
He didn't put them in boxes.
He wasn't partial or prejudice.
He helped persons to correct their thinking and turn around.
He remembered their limitations.
He looked beyond their faults and saw their genuine intentions and their good qualities.
He prayed to Jehovah to help them, and he took time to listen and to dignify them by letting them express themselves.
Well, I'm sure all of us can say there's plenty of room for improvement as far as we're concerned.
Yes, we have much to do to imitate the love that Jesus showed us.